System Design Interviews were difficult,

Until I know these 23 principles.

1. If you need to scale an individual component, stick with Vertical Scaling first. Then, consider horizontal scaling when needed.

2. To deal with traffic spikes, evaluate the use of Autoscaling for Dynamic Resource Allocation.

3. If the system requires High Availability with Performance, consider using a Load Balancer.

4. If you're building a read-heavy system, it's a good idea to use a Cache.

5. Listen to the system requirements properly and note them down if needed.

6. To reduce the latency of static assets, consider using a CDN.

7. If you want to improve the database query performance, focus on the right indexes.

8. To scale the read requests to your database, consider Database Replication.

9. To scale write requests, consider Database Sharding.

10. Clarify your assumptions before jumping into the solution.

11. For global distribution of data, use a CDN.

12. If you want to store complex data such as videos, images, and files, go for an Object Storage.

13. To manage the load on the server and prevent denial-of-service attacks, use Rate Limiting.

14. To remove a Single Point of Failure, implement Redundancy and Isolation.

15. Clarify the Non-Functional Requirements as well and take them into account.

16. To improve the Fault Tolerance and Durability of your data, consider Data Replication techniques.

17. If the system needs to execute long-running tasks, use Async Processing and Background Processes.

18. To build a loosely coupled system, consider the use of Event-Driven Architecture.

19. If the system needs to store unstructured data, consider NoSQL databases.

20. Keep getting feedback during the discussion rather than waiting till the end.

21. To deal with large amounts of data flowing through the network, use Compression and Pagination techniques.

22. For automated builds and deployments, consider implementing CI/CD pipelines.

23. To achieve independent deployments of various parts of the system, consider microservices architecture.

𝗞𝗲𝗲𝗽𝗶𝗻𝗴 𝘁𝗵𝗶𝘀 𝗶𝗻 𝗺𝗶𝗻𝗱, 𝗜’𝘃𝗲 𝗽𝗿𝗲𝗽𝗮𝗿𝗲𝗱 𝗶𝗻 𝗗𝗲𝗽𝘁𝗵 𝗦𝘆𝘀𝘁𝗲𝗺 𝗗𝗲𝘀𝗶𝗴𝗻 𝗚𝘂𝗶𝗱𝗲.
